# Missile-Detection-Alarming-Device
A classic system built to detect missiles in war-field, alarm personnel with its visuals and trigger a laser shooter in the direction of detection

Wars are intense armed conflicts between states, nations, countries or any paramilitary groups. The purpose of this project is to design and construct automatic missile detection and alarming system for military applications. The device can be used in the war-field to detect missiles if any. This system is designed to detect the target (missile) moving in multiple directions. The proposed system uses an ultrasonic module interfaced to 8051 family microcontroller to detect missile object. The ultrasonic proximity detector comprising independent, battery or AC powered transmitter and receiver section make use of a pair of matched ultrasonic piezo ceramic transducers each operating at around 40 kHz. Ultrasonic sensors, in particular, provide an ideal platform for experimental development in range detection. They are cheap, readily available, and increasingly possessed of high-resolution sensors. 

The ultrasonic transducer produces sound waves. The transmitted sound waves are reflected back from the object and received by the transducer again. There is also an ESP32 camera module interfaced with a microcontroller-based control unit. The ESP32 camera module is mounted on the rotating arm which rotates from 0-180 degrees. It provides live streaming as it rotates in different directions.When the microcontroller receives the signal about the missile from ultrasonic receiver and visuals from the camera, it activates the buzzer system by triggering the gate of MOSFET through a transistor or relay and it also activates the laser and makes it point in the direction of the missile. We prefer ultrasonic sensor to IR sensor, because the Ultrasonic sensors covers larger sensing distance and it can detect the target in all the lighting conditions (day or night). Then this is converted to DC using a Bridge rectifier.
